# Fairness-Aware Algorithms for Network Analysis

This repository provides a reference implementations for the Fairness Aware Algorithms for Network Analysis(**FAI**) project which is jointly funded by the National Science Foundation and Amazon under the Fairness in AI program. The goal of this project is to develop fairness-aware algorithms that can maintain the high utility of decisions generated by the AI systems without discriminating against particular subgroups of the population. Specifically, this research will address fundamental issues of fairness in algorithms that utilize network data in their decision making [**(More Information)**](http://cse.msu.edu/~ptan/project/fairness/).

## Project Highlight:

* [Fairness-Aware Network Link Prediction](https://github.com/farzmas/FLIP)[1]: Examines the filter bubble problem from the perspective of algorithm fairness ny introducing (1) a dyadic-level fairness criterion based on network modularity measure and (2) a novel framework that combines adversarial network representation learning with supervised link prediction to alleviate the filter bubble problem.
* [Fairness Perception](https://github.com/farzmas/Fairness-Aware-Algorithms-for-Network-Analysis/tree/main/Fairness%20Perception)[2]: Investigates the issue of algorithmic fairness from a network-centric perspective by introducing a notion of fairness perception.


## Publications:

1. Farzan Masrour, Tyler Wilson, Heng Yan, Pang-Ning Tan, Abdol-Hossein Esfahanian. Bursting the Filter Bubble: Fairness-Aware Network Link Prediction. In Proceedings of the 34th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-2020), New York, NY (2020). 

2. Farzan Masrour, Pang-Ning Tan, and Abdol-Hossein Esfahanian. Fairness Perception from a Network-Centric Perspective. To appear in Proceedings of the 20th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, Sorrento, Italy (2020).


